Add dotnet-stack docs (#21618)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/dotnet-stack.md

---
title: dotnet-stack tool - .NET Core
description: Installing and using the dotnet-stack command-line tool.
ms.date: 11/21/2019
---
# dotnet-stack performance analysis utility

> **This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.0 SDK and later versions

Reviewer: Wasn't there a runtime bug in 3.0 that prevented this from working so this only works from 3.1, or am I misremembering this?

Author: That was gcdump!

Reviewer: you're right :) nvm then!

## Install dotnet-stack

> ### Option 1 - Install as dotnet global tool:

Reviewer: This part should be changed to match what https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/21617 did.

Install `dotnet-stack` [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/dotnet-stack) with the [dotnet tool install](../tools/dotnet-tool-install.md) command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-stack
```

### Option 2 - Direct download:

- Win ([x86](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x86) | [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x64) | [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm) | [arm-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm64))
- macOS ([x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/osx-x64))
- Linux ([x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-x64) | [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm) | [arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm64) | [musl-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-x64) | [musl-arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-arm64))

## Synopsis

```console
dotnet-stack [-h, --help] [--version] <command>
```

## Description

The `dotnet-stack` tool:

* Is a cross-platform .NET Core tool.

> * Reports the managed stacks for all threads in .NET process.

Reviewer: What do you think about changing this to `Captures and writes out the managed stacks for all threads in the target .NET process?`

Author: That works too.  I used report here since I copied this over from the dotnet-trace docs which seemed to try to match the phrasing with the command verb, e.g., collect for `dotnet-trace collect`.

Reviewer: Interesting. Some tools have more than one commands (i.e. counters, trace both have/will have collect/monitor) so it might not make the most sense to use the commands to describe the tools for those two tools.

Do you anticipate `dotnet-stack` to have more than just `report` command anytime soon?

Author: I don't anticipate `dotnet-stack` to have more verbs than `report`.  I already changed it to your suggestion locally.  I just need to push it up.

* Is built on [`EventPipe`](./eventpipe.md) of the .NET Core runtime.

> * Delivers the same experience on Windows, Linux, or macOS.

Reviewer: I think the part about it being a cross-platform tool already makes this part pretty clear so we can leave this out.

---

> title: dotnet-stack tool - .NET Core
> description: Installing and using the dotnet-stack command-line tool.

Reviewer 2: Improve search and match other diagnostic tool design (pending in PR)

```suggestion
title: dotnet-stack diagnostic tool - .NET CLI
description: Learn how to install and use the dotnet-stack command-line tool which captures and prints the managed stacks for all threads in the target .NET process.
```

ms.date: 11/17/2020
---
# Inspect managed stack traces (dotnet-stack)

> **This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.0 SDK and later versions

Reviewer 3: I think this issue applies to other tools as well so perhaps best for a separate PR. I expect customers to treat "Applies to" as "what .NET runtime version can I diagnose with the tool"
```suggestion
**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET Core 3.0 and later versions
```

Author: This tool should work for 3.0 as well.

## Install

There are two ways to download and install `dotnet-stack`:

- **dotnet global tool:**

>   To install the latest release version of the `dotnet-counters` [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/dotnet-stack), use the [dotnet tool install](../tools/dotnet-tool-install.md) command:

Reviewer 2: Fix tool name
```suggestion
  To install the latest release version of the `dotnet-stack` [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/dotnet-stack), use the [dotnet tool install](../tools/dotnet-tool-install.md) command:
```

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-stack
  ```

- **Direct download:**

  Download the tool executable that matches your platform:

  | OS  | Platform |
  | --- | -------- |
  | Windows | [x86](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x86) \| [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x64) \| [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm) \| [arm-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm64) |
  | macOS   | [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/osx-x64) |
  | Linux   | [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-x64) \| [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm) \| [arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm64) \| [musl-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-x64) \| [musl-arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-arm64) |

## Synopsis

```console
dotnet-stack [-h, --help] [--version] <command>
```

## Description

The `dotnet-stack` tool:

* Is a cross-platform .NET Core tool.
* Captures and prints the managed stacks for all threads in the target .NET process.

> * Is built on [`EventPipe`](./eventpipe.md) of the .NET Core runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Utilizes [`EventPipe`](./eventpipe.md) tracing provided by the .NET Core runtime.
```

## Options

- **`-h|--help`**

  Shows command-line help.

- **`--version`**

  Displays the version of the dotnet-stack utility.

## Commands

| Command                                                   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| [dotnet-stack report](#dotnet-stack-report)               |
| [dotnet-stack ps](#dotnet-stack-ps)                       |

## dotnet-stack report

> Collects a diagnostic trace from a running process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Prints the stack trace for each thread in the target process.
```

### Synopsis

```console
dotnet-stack report -p|--process-id <pid>

>                     -n|--name <process-name>

Reviewer 3: This is just an aside and you don't need to change anything. I know dotnet-stack didn't start the trend but I find the name of the "--name" option is super ambiguous : ) Without docs I would never guess what this meant.

---
title: dotnet-stack diagnostic tool - .NET CLI
description: Learn how to install and use the dotnet-stack CLI tool which captures and prints the managed stacks for all threads in the target .NET process.

> ms.date: 11/17/2020

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ms.date: 04/21/2021
```

  - On Windows, you can use Task Manager or the `tasklist` command, for example.
  - On Linux, for example, the `ps` command.
  - [dotnet-stack ps](#dotnet-stack-ps)

- Run the following command:

  ```console
  dotnet-stack report --process-id <PID>
  ```

  The preceding command generates output similar to the following:

  ```console
  Thread (0x48839B):
    [Native Frames]
    System.Console!System.IO.StdInReader.ReadKey(bool&)
    System.Console!System.IO.SyncTextReader.ReadKey(bool&)
    System.Console!System.ConsolePal.ReadKey(bool)
    System.Console!System.Console.ReadKey()
    StackTracee!Tracee.Program.Main(class System.String[])
  ```

  The output of `dotnet-stack` follows the following form:

  - Comments in the output are prefixed with `#`.
  - Each thread has a header that includes the native thread ID: `Thread (<thread-id>):`.
  - Stack frames follow the form `Module!Method`.
  - Transitions to unmanaged code are represented as `[Native Frames]` in the output.

  ```
  # comment
  Thread (0x1234):
    module!Method
    module!Method

  Thread (0x5678):
    [Native Frames]
    Module!Method
    Module!Method

>   ```

Reviewer 2: There should be another section here at the end like `## Next steps` which has links to the diagnostics overview and other related content.

Author: Added

  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-stack
  ```

- **Direct download:**

  Download the tool executable that matches your platform:

  | OS  | Platform |
  | --- | -------- |
  | Windows | [x86](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x86) \| [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-x64) \| [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm) \| [arm-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/win-arm64) |
  | macOS   | [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/osx-x64) |
  | Linux   | [x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-x64) \| [arm](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm) \| [arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-arm64) \| [musl-x64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-x64) \| [musl-arm64](https://aka.ms/dotnet-stack/linux-musl-arm64) |

## Synopsis

```console
dotnet-stack [-h, --help] [--version] <command>
```

## Description

The `dotnet-stack` tool:

* Is a cross-platform .NET Core tool.
* Captures and prints the managed stacks for all threads in the target .NET process.
* Utilizes [`EventPipe`](./eventpipe.md) tracing provided by the .NET Core runtime.

## Options

- **`-h|--help`**

  Shows command-line help.

- **`--version`**

  Displays the version of the dotnet-stack utility.

## Commands

> | Command                                                   |
> |-----------------------------------------------------------|
> | [dotnet-stack report](#dotnet-stack-report)               |
> | [dotnet-stack ps](#dotnet-stack-ps)                       |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Command                                     | Description                                                   |
|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| [dotnet-stack report](#dotnet-stack-report) | Prints the stack trace for each thread in the target process. |
| [dotnet-stack ps](#dotnet-stack-ps)         | Lists the dotnet processes that traces can be collected from. |
```

```

## Report managed stacks with dotnet-stack

To report managed stacks using `dotnet-stack`:

- Get the process identifier (PID) of the .NET Core application to report stacks from.

  - On Windows, you can use Task Manager or the `tasklist` command, for example.
  - On Linux, for example, the `ps` command.
  - [dotnet-stack ps](#dotnet-stack-ps)

- Run the following command:

  ```console
  dotnet-stack report --process-id <PID>
  ```

  The preceding command generates output similar to the following:

  ```console
  Thread (0x48839B):
    [Native Frames]
    System.Console!System.IO.StdInReader.ReadKey(bool&)
    System.Console!System.IO.SyncTextReader.ReadKey(bool&)
    System.Console!System.ConsolePal.ReadKey(bool)
    System.Console!System.Console.ReadKey()
    StackTracee!Tracee.Program.Main(class System.String[])
  ```

  The output of `dotnet-stack` follows the following form:

  - Comments in the output are prefixed with `#`.
  - Each thread has a header that includes the native thread ID: `Thread (<thread-id>):`.
  - Stack frames follow the form `Module!Method`.
  - Transitions to unmanaged code are represented as `[Native Frames]` in the output.

>   ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  ```console
```

  # comment
  Thread (0x1234):
    module!Method
    module!Method

  Thread (0x5678):
    [Native Frames]
    Module!Method
    Module!Method
  ```
  

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```
